I'd like to walk through the process of finding
data science talent using an example from my own experience.
When I joined Sears as Chief Data Scientist,
the first time I met the CEO, he told me,
"When you come to me,
I want to talk about opportunities that are
at least $100 million margin or creative opportunities."
At the time, my team consisted of the one remaining junior data scientist from
a converted economic modeling team and one member of Sears MBA rotational program,
a recent MBA whose current rotation was with my data science group.
I needed to follow the guidance I read in
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Don't Panic.
I had to scale up fast and begun looking for people to join the team.
Of course, the market was tight for these highly technical specialists,
so I took full advantage of my network to try to find talent quickly.
In addition to traditional channels,
I found talent in the following places;
A specialists data science consultancy provided several people.
I brought in two more people who were on MBA rotational programs through Sears.
I hired one person with an MBA in business analytics as an intern.
I brought in three contractors that I had worked
with previously in a previous organization,
and I filled in technical gaps with
team members from an offshore data science consultancy.
As you can see, I had to get quite creative to fill out
the project with the team members needed in short order.